All right.
Welcome back.
So the next thing we're going to do is take the data that's coming from the API that we've loaded into
the state and we're going to render a bunch of to do items which are a component we have yet to define.
So for each to do we'll have to do item and that to do item is not only going to display the text of
that to do but it will also correctly show the status of the to do if it's done or not.
And then later on we'll also add the functionality for the delete button and the ability to complete
it or uncompleted and check it off essentially.
But for now we're just going to get them to show up and I should mention we're not really going to worry
about styling right now.
We'll tackle that at the end.
So let's head over to Claudina on the first thing I'll do is make a new file.
So this file I will call to do.
Item j Yes.
You could also just do to do that.
Yes.
And in here I'll just copy this over import react.
Then we're going to define to do item has a functional stateless component.
So we're going to do Konst to do item equals and again we're doing this because to do items really simple
it's there's no state involved.
It's pretty straightforward it's really just going to render an ally with some text add a style for
the strikethrough.
And that's pretty much it.
It's going to do to do item and go with name which is the data that's coming in
and then inside of this will just return an ally and inside that I will just add name.
So the idea here is that we're going to map through in our to do list this stuff state out to use for
each one are going to create a tool to do item are going to pass through the name.
Basically the text to do and print it out in an ally.
And that's pretty much it.
So the bottom need to export the fault to do item just like that.
Now let's go over to our to do list and actually do something with those with our new component.
So down here in render I'm going to add in Konst dues equals this state DOT to use dot map and we'll
just call each one T
and then and here we're going to define a to do item
do it on two lines because we have a couple things we care about we need to pass in key.
And normally we would add an index here and we would set the key to be that index but our data already
has unique IDs.
If we go into dev tools here and go into react and then to do list and state you can see that each one
already has this underscore id property which is a unique ID and that's all we need.
Actually much better to use that compared to using an index.
Actually I think react will warn you if you try and use an index anyway.
So we're going to use the implicit key he calls a T Dot underscore ID and then everything else.
We'll pass on through.
And we need one more of those for that to be correct and that should be it.
And I just need to add my friend here and there.
Now it should be good except we haven't required to do item.
So appear just going to do that now.
So we will import to do item from that Slash to do item
OK.
Do you see that deuce is assigned to but we're never using it.
And that's because down here we have our To Do list.
We now need to render our to do.
So this is an array and we're going to add that in there we get another warning now or an error this
time because remember we can only return one element.
And so I need to wrap this all in.
Let's do a div.
Any element of our choice.
Or we could do it well as well.
So maybe I'll wrap the whole thing in a div and then I'll put it to use inside of a
and a bit more.
OK.
So we're returning one item a div we have each one and then unordered list inside of it with all of
our tattoos.
Each one is said to do item and all we're doing the to do item is displaying the name instead of an
outline.
Also we can get rid of this component.
I just copy that over.
We're not using that anymore because we're making this stateless so we should be good.
Let's see what happens.
Refresh the page.
You don't even need to refresh to create re-act up and our tattoos are here for you open up the re-active
tools.
We have our app.
We've got our to do list instead of a To Do list.
All we have for each one UL and then each to do item and each item has the keys to that unique ID and
then all the other properties are name created date and completed.
Right now completed if set to false on all of them.
So if we try and display that we actually wouldn't see anything.
Once we have that code in because none of them are completed.
So what I'm going to do is actually go over here to 80 81 to the actual to do list app from the beginning.
And I'm just going to check a couple of them off.
So now I refresh my app here and we look at our data again you can see that some of them have completed
set to True but they're not reflecting that.
So the last thing that we'll do is get that to work.
The ones that are completed should have a strikethrough going through them line through whatever it's
called.
They should be checked off.
We could change the color but we're just going to start really simple go back to our to do item component
and all we need to do inside this high in the opening tag.
We're going to add style equals and we'll do this conditionally like this and we'll just set text decoration
completed if it is completed we'll add a line through can not spell.
And if it's not completed will it not.
There's a problem of course because right now completed is not defined.
So appear we just add in completed and there we go.
So for each ally we're going to add a style text decoration is either going to be line through or none
depending on if completed is true or false.
So let's take a look now.
There we go.
Things are completed have that strikethrough.
So I could go back here to my app and check them all off.
Refresh the page and they're all completed.
Now we don't have the functionality working to undo that or to actually affect change here because that
requires then also sending an API call off to our API.
So that's coming up soon.
But next are actually going to work on the form.
So just to recap this video we kind of did a lot created hard to do that component.
We passed through a bunch of data but we're using the name and the completed style it conditionally.
And then instead of to do list we create this to do array and to add render kind of a standard pattern.
We map over this data state that to do is she loaded up here load to do.
We did a fetch and we're parsing it and then setting the state and we're using that down here to make
it array of to do items which are then rendering here.
All right.
We made it.
Next up let's get the form working.